                                EE52037 MSc AI4ED
                                 Research Project

                                     Unit convenor:
                               Dr. Veronica Ferrandiz-Mas
                                      vfm24@bath.ac.uk


General
The MSc dissertation should be up to 10,000 words, including footnotes, but excluding
references, acknowledgements and any appendices where required.

The research project is a 30 ECTS unit that takes place during the period June to August.
Your research project will act as platform for you to identify, explore and interpret aspects at
the forefront of AI / ML applications and implement a programme of research. Under the
guidance of an academic supervisor, you will design and manage your own project using
skills and knowledge developed during the course and disseminate your research outcomes
to a range of audiences.

Learning Outcomes
On successful completion of the unit, the students should be able to demonstrate the ability
to:
    1. Select and critically evaluate technical literature and other sources of information to
       solve a complex research problem
    2. Implement and critically evaluate novel research in the context of existing literature.
    3. Consider and take appropriate action for economic, ethical and sustainable issues
       which may impact on your project outcomes
    4. Select appropriate methodology, justifying and evaluating chosen methods
    5. Develop evidence-based conclusions and recommendations
    6. Effectively communicate the outcomes to a range of audiences
    7. Exercise initiative and personal responsibility

Dissertations should aim to:
   •   Demonstrate originality, insight and critical analysis on a topic relating to your course.
   •   Show relevance to current literature on the chosen topic issues/themes through
       contextualising chosen subject(s).
   •   Identify clearly the issues, themes and research questions that will be addressed.
   •   Set out the rationale for critically selecting a research method that can accomplish
       the research aims and objectives and assess research results in light of precedent
       and current issues/themes.
   •   Sum up the current state of the art (up to 2025) scholarship/knowledge relevant to the
       topic discussed.
   •   Map the evidence that supports your arguments clearly and critically.
   •   Acknowledge the technical/social context of your work etc, and
       where relevant/possible, explore issues associated with them.
   •   Critically define key terms, concepts, and constructs relevant to your research.
   •   Set out the scope, extent, audience, aim etc., of any surveys initiated.
   •   Demonstrate how the evidence from items in the bibliography has been used in the
       text.



                                          Page 1 of 8
Dissertation Milestones
In order for supervisors to provide support and formative feedback to your dissertation
research and your writing style and presentation, there are two interim formative submissions
during your dissertation research, though they carry no mark:
1. 3rd July 2025: Submit the draft of your "Introduction" chapter (for ED/CHB/CE)

2. 18th July 2025: Submit the draft of your "Methodology" chapter (for ED/CHB/CE)
The supervisor will not read the whole draft of the dissertation before submission. The
dissertation must be, and be seen to be, your own work.

Supervision arrangements
The dissertation is student-led research under the directed supervision of an academic
supervisor. The supervisor is the first point of contact for any help/guidance required for the
dissertation research. Therefore, the following guidelines will apply:

      The student will expect to typically have up to 14 contact hours with their
       supervisors over the course of the dissertation period. The precise number may,
       however, vary from case to case.
      It is the student's responsibility to make contact with the supervisor by
       email and arrange mutually convenient dates.
      Formal supervision meetings are usually expected to take place about every two
       weeks. During these, students should report on progress since the previous meeting,
       problems that have been solved, problems that may have arisen and the plan of work
       for the next period.
      Once arranged, supervisors should allocate appropriate time in their diary to review
       progress and provide feedback.
      When meetings happen (virtually, electronically or physically), the student should
       maintain an electronic supervision diary that can be exchanged with the supervisor to
       agree on what was discussed at the meeting.
      The student should be aware that if the supervisor is away from the University
       during the dissertation period, it is the student's responsibility to plan his/her
       project work and supervision meetings during the supervisor's absence.

Dissertation submission
The final dissertation must be submitted by
4 pm on Friday 29 August 2025
after completion of the taught course (teaching having finished in May). While the
dissertation will in most cases spring from ideas gained during the course, you are strongly
encouraged to select and commence your subject as soon into the academic year as
possible. The dissertations are submitted electronically on Moodle and the arrangements for
this and to the library are posted on course Moodle page in the submission section EE2037.

Taught Postgraduate Dissertations - Library submission details for students
This information is for taught postgraduate dissertations. The Library now accepts taught
postgraduate dissertations (MSc, MBA, MRes, etc.) in electronic format only.

Guidelines about depositing dissertations can be found here:

Deposit your dissertation with the Library



                                          Page 2 of 8
 You must submit your dissertation or project report to your academic
 department/school for assessment.
   1. If you would also like to deposit your dissertation with the Library, please note the following:
    Depositing your dissertation with the library is optional.
    Please do not deposit your dissertation if it contains personal or commercially confidential
       information.
    Upload your dissertation as a single PDF file (no larger than 30MB).
    Dissertations will be made available according to the classification of degree awarded.
    Dissertations will only be made available to members of the University of Bath.
    Dissertations will be kept for no more than five years.

Some notes on dissertation writing
You are encouraged to keep careful notes of everything you read, noting publication titles
and relevant page numbers, as required for the notes and bibliography (see below for CHB).
The following structuring and formatting of the dissertation must be adopted.

Format guidelines:

       Pdf files, max size 50MB.
       Arial seems compatible to most printers.
       Minimum 11 point text.
       1.5 spacing.
       No less than 2.5 cm margins, top, right and bottom.
       3cm left margin for binding.
       Centre bottom page numbering.
       Harvard Referencing format.

The dissertation must be clearly structured to provide:

    1. Title sheet
    2. Contents list with page numbers
    3. Abstract
    4. List of illustrations/figures and tables
    5. Acknowledgements
    6. Introduction
    7. A description and analysis of the subject, using appropriate chapter headings
    8. Conclusion
    9. References
    10. Appendices (where it is needed)

Please look into Moodle for dissertation template: EE52037_Dissertation Template AI.docx


1. Title sheet
This should state the title and the following: A dissertation submitted by [author's name]
towards the degree of Master of Science MSc Artificial Intelligence in Engineering and
Design

2. Contents list with page numbers
If possible, place this on a single sheet for ease of reference by the reader.

3. Abstract and key findings
The dissertation should be clearly structured around the hypothesis that is being made. The
argument and the structure of the writing go hand in hand.

                                            Page 3 of 8
4. List of illustrations/figures and tables
A list of illustrations/figures/tables with sources acknowledged should be located on a
separate sheet. Figures are an important part of the presentation and should be located in
the text whenever practical adjacent to the first mention of the item being illustrated. They
should be keyed into the text using square brackets thus: [Fig. 1]. Ensure that photocopies
are of a high quality and if you are using your own drawings, ensure that these are of a
similar high quality to other material being presented.

5. Acknowledgements
All those who have helped with the writing of the work should be thanked.

6. Introduction
The introduction should briefly define the subject and the hypothesis, and say what other
works exist on the subject and how the following dissertation differs and agrees with this
body of work. A case for the originality of the dissertation also needs to be made. Where
possible the principle sources need to be mentioned. This will clarify both the usefulness of
the work to readers, and the terms upon which the dissertation should be marked.

7. A description and analysis of the subject, placing it in an appropriate context,
using appropriate chapter headings (e.g., Aims and Objectives, Literature review,
Methods, Results and Analysis, etc.)

8. Conclusion
The conclusion should be concise but clear, not simply repeating the earlier conclusions but
have an individual character of its own. It is possible to introduce a new piece of evidence or
idea at the end to add your own take on the result and impact of your work. Potential future
developments and improvements can also be included here.

9. References
A reference to a book by Bernard Feilden would appear in the notes as surname, date of
publication, relevant page references:

       Feilden (1982), p.123.

And in the bibliography as surname, initial(s), title (with upper case letters for key words,
emboldened, in italics or underlined), publisher and city of publication, date of publication:

     Feilden, Bernard M., Conservation of Historic Buildings, London, 1982

A publication in a journal or conference proceedings would be presented slightly differently,
as follows:

In the notes as surname, date of publication, relevant page references:

       Forsyth (2003), pp. 4-9




                                          Page 4 of 8
And in the bibliography as surname, initial(s), title (in inverted commas, with upper case
letters for first word only), journal title (emboldened, in Italics or underlined), volume/no., date
of publication, relevant pages:

Forsyth, 'Victorian and Edwardian Bath: the forgotten years', The Victorian, The Victorian
Society, Nov 2003, n.14, pp 4-9.

NB: It is important that punctuation and spacing is used correctly and consistently, as
indicated in the examples above.

10. Appendices
 Appendices should only be used to accommodate information subordinate to the text. This
 will not be marked as part of the dissertation but provide supplementary material that may
 be of interest to the reader.

Assessment of the dissertation
Dissertations are blind marked by a first and second examiner. Where the first and second
marker cannot agree a mark or where the difference is more than 4%, the unit convenor will
appoint and coordinate a third examiner but will not act as the third marker. The mark you
will receive will be based on the assessment criteria.

What is assessed
The mark you will receive depends on meeting the marking criteria (see assessement criteria
rubric on Moodle: https://moodle.bath.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=1448134. These
include structure; clarity and consistency, argument; use of English; scholarly or technical
correctness; proper referencing (Harvard or APA), the completeness of the finished work;
and its contribution to the area chosen.

A good dissertation is one that is focused and that demonstrates scholarship and critical,
innovative thought. In assessing the dissertation, we will bear in mind the following
considerations:

        Do you demonstrate a good knowledge of the literature on the chosen topic and
         closely related topics? To what extent have you understood the literature? Is
         the factual material accurate?

        To what extent is there a logical arrangement of an argument throughout
         the dissertation? We are looking here at the arrangement and structure of
         the dissertation rather than detailed arguments within it.

        To what extent are you able to look critically at other people's arguments
         and published 'facts'? Here, the presentation of detailed argument is
         important.

        To what extent are you able to evolve original criticism of other people's work and
         make original constructive comments of your own? Here, also, the presentation
         of detailed argument is important.

        Is the dissertation written in good grammatical English? Are your arguments
         as clearly written as possible?




                                            Page 5 of 8
       Finally, your presentation: get your spelling right, sensible paragraphs, give
        correct references and bibliographical information.

Marking scheme
Work at each level will exhibit most of the characteristics described. Please note there is no
resit minimum mark. If a student failed the unit, he/she can be reassessed for a capped 50%
pass mark; up to two reassessments are permitted for the unit.

 80%+        Distinction     EXCELLENT
                             Work well resolved in all aspects
                             Dense and relevant references to a large body of primary
                             source material handled with critical acumen
                             Argument sophisticated and challenging
                             Point of view clear and confidently expressed
                             Rigorous use of appropriate and innovative methodology
                             Very good knowledge and understanding of the topic,
                             broadening it into other disciplines where relevant
                             (bibliography)
                             Highly original, suitable for publication
                             Very well written
                             High level of critical insight and ability in choosing visual
                             material
                             Presentation and referencing immaculate
 70-79%      Distinction     VERY GOOD
                             Work Resolved in all aspects
                             References to a large body of primary source material
                             Well-articulated argument
                             Point of view well expressed
                             Appropriate use of methodology
                             Good use of factual material handled with critical acumen
                             Good knowledge and understanding of the topic (bibliography)
                             Original
                             Well written
                             Good level of critical insight and ability in choosing visual
                             material
                             Polished presentation and referencing

                             75-79 shows real grasp of topic and confidence in its
                             exposition
                             70-74 consistently well crafted
 60-69%      Merit           GOOD
                             Work resolved in most aspects
                             References to some primary source material
                             Sound argument
                             Point of view tentative
                             Some discussion and use of methodology,
                             Good use of factual material
                             Good, but patchy knowledge and understanding of the topic
                             (bibliography)
                             Some original insight
                             Generally well written




                                         Page 6 of 8
                Judicious and consistent use of visual material
                Competent presentation and referencing

                (60-64% Routine but cogent set of ideas)
50-59%   Pass   FAIR
                Work resolved in some aspects
                Secondary sources substituting for first-hand
                Argument set out but not fully resolved
                Point of view not clear – little critical awareness
                Methodology not articulated, but apparent through reading
                Fair level of knowledge and understanding of the topic
                (bibliography)
                Little original insight
                Generally adequate quality of writing
                Visual material not always appropriate
                Presentation and referencing inconsistent

                50-54 tendency towards padding, lack of ideas, simple
                synopsis with little analysis
40-49%   Fail   POOR
                Few aspects of work resolved
                Secondary sources dominate, sometimes poorly utilised
                Poor resolution of sketchy argument
                Point of view never addressed
                No consistent methodology apparent
                Scant level of knowledge of topic (limited bibliography)
                Almost no original insight
                Writing sometimes poor
                Visual material scant, often inappropriate and sometimes
                irrelevant
                Presentation and referencing poor

                40-44 Lacking direction, often padded, evidence of haste in
                execution
<40%     Fail   Very few aspects of work resolved
                Limited use of secondary sources.
                No apparent argument
                No critical awareness or articulation of own point of view.
                Non-existent use of research methodology
                Meagre or non-existent knowledge of topic (very limited or
                non-existent bibliography)
                Totally derivative
                Writing poor
                Very little care taken with presentation.
                No references.
                Full of waffle




                            Page 7 of 8
Presentations
Marking scheme and guidelines in Moodle:
https://moodle.bath.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=1455684


Purpose of the assessment
This individual presentation (worth 20% of the overall Research Project unit mark) is intended
to:
      Convey the project aims, methods, findings, and significance.
      Demonstrate effective communication of technical content to a mixed audience.
      Defend critical aspects of the research through viva-style questioning.
Structure of the assessment

      Online Live MS Teams Presentation:
           o   Presentation (7 minutes): A recorded voice-over slide deck in PowerPoint (pre-
               submitted).
           o   Viva-style Discussion (13 minutes): Online Live Q&A with first marker and
               supervisor. The viva discussion will be recorded for moderation and 3rd marking
               purposes.
Assessment criteria and weighting

      Communicating to a Wider Audience 20%
      Presentation Quality 10%
      Critical Thinking and Argumentation 70%


Important: Dealine for submitting your presentation is 5th September 2025 by 4 pm. You will
have to submit a recorded voice-over slide deck in Power Point in the submission point abilitated
in Moodle (please look for submission point for presentation under the Assessment Information
section in Moodle).
On the week commencing on the 8th September, you will have an oral viva of your submitted
presentation. Your supervisor will be encouraged to organise your viva, that can be online or
in person depending of your availability and your supervisor/second marker availability.
If the viva is going to take place in person, it is your supervisor responsibility to make room
arrangements. Your supervisor will contact you to confirm date, time and location of the viva.
Please, discuss with your supervisor if you prefer an online presentation (for example if you will
be away) or if you prefer to take place in person.
On the day of your viva, the first 7 minutes will be for playing your pre-submitted presentation,
follow by 13 minutes of live Q&A (online or in person). The viva discussion will be recorded for
moderation and 3rd marking purpose.




                                           Page 8 of 8
